count(3) -- count the files in a directory
=============================================

## SYNOPSIS

    #include <count.h> // or "count.h" if not installed to library location
    printf("%i", count_query("/var/www/html", 0, 1, 0, 1));

## DESCRIPTION

**count** counts the number of files in a directory. It can also be used (see [EXAMPLES][]) to include directories, symbolic links, and hidden files in that count. Additionally, a command-line utility is provided, see count(1).

## EXAMPLES

Get the number of files in the directory "/home/sid", excluding hidden ones:<br>

    int count = count_files("/home/sid", 0);

Get the number of files and directories in the directory "/home/sid", excluding hidden ones:<br>

    int count = count_query("/home/sid", 0, 1, 1, 0);

Get the number of links, files and directories in the directory "/home/sid", excluding hidden ones:<br>
    
    int count = count_query("/home/sid", 0, 1, 1, 1);

Get the number of links, files and directories in the directory "/home/sid", including hidden ones:<br>

    int count = count_items("/home/sid", 1);

Get the number of files in the directory "/home/sid", including hidden ones:<br>

    int count = count_query("/home/sid", 1, 1, 0, 0);

## RETURN VALUE

These functions return the count of files, directories, and/or links as specified in the query.

## NOTES

The current working directory ("."), and parent directory ("..") are not included in any counts. No counts are recursive.

## ERRORS

All functions provided in count.h return -1 if there was a failure (likely due to a directory not existing).

## COPYRIGHT

Copyright © 2023 Sidney Trzepacz.  License MIT: The MIT License <https://opensource.org/license/mit>.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.  There is NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, to the extent permitted by law.

## SEE ALSO

ls(1), wc(1), find(1), libc(7)